---
layout: post
author: Savoury SnaX
title: Timings
---

 With workbench working to some degree (see earlier blog entries), I am in the mood for a bit of refactoring.

 I am going to rework the cpu core. As a start I wrote some code on devpac to attempt to measure the cycle timings of various instructions. To do this, I used the VHPOS register and basically recorded it as I ran the instruction MOVE.W $6(a0),(a1)+. That gave me a difference between each consecutive address of 8. According to the documentation 1 pulse of the VHPOS register is 280ns so in theory that means the cost of MOVE.W $6(a0),(a1)+ is 8\*280ns. 

 Next i inserted a NOP into the proceedings, this gave me 10\*280ns. So in theory the NOP takes 2\*280ns. This all seems quite logical. So what about for instance MOVE.W #1000,d0, well same process and that gives us 12 which removing the cost of the move gives me 4\*280ns.

 My overall intention is to break the cpu down below the instruction level. So for instance :

 MOVE.W #1000,d0

 becomes :

* Instruction Fetch - 280ns
* EA calc - 280ns
* Immediate load - 280ns
* store to d0 - 280ns

 or something along those lines. Not a trivial task, but it feels like the right way to go to emulate the behaviour of the odd/even bus allocation on the amiga hardware. A resolution of 280ns is fine, since at least at present thats the fastest event in the emulation. Having said that EXG d5,d6 gives a count of 11 (which is 3*280ns), not a problem so long as i don't find anything smaller than 1.

 For the interested :

<code>
	jsr	START
	rts

START
	lea	$dff000,a0
	move.w	#$0100,$96(a0)	; disable dma and interrupts
	move.w	#$4000,$9A(a0)	; to ensure no bus contention

	lea	DATA,a1

wait
	move.w	$06(a0),d0
	and.w	#$FF00,d0
	bne	wait			; just so i start at a fixed point

	move.w	$06(a0),d0

	REPT	1000
	move.w	#1000,d7
	move.w	$06(a0),(a1)+
	ENDR

	move.w	$06(a0),d1

	move.w	#$8100,$96(a0)		; re-enable interrupts so i can continue
	move.w	#$C000,$9A(a0)		;to use devpac
	rts

DATA	ds.w	1000
</code>
